So welcome but as brand new section when I'm going to the exciting part the course we're against our
convert in our bootstrap template to a word pressfield.
So just before we started not we need to download a web server onto our machine so to develop WordPress
websites on our machine locally need to install the web server.
So if you head over to mump any ampie dot info and build to install the latest version of mump And if
you just click on need download button this is available for free on both Mac and Windows.
So click the dung or button to get started.
And then download the latest version.
So up to now we've been building our website in bookstop which includes hate mail C S S and Javascript
all of which run the browser so we don't need any special tools for the website to appear in the browser.
But because we use one word press and WordPress is built using P P and uses my escarole database we
need to install mump to create a local server on our machine and this will enable us to build WordPress
websites.
I'll have them live on the Internet so just pause a video for a minute while I stole a modem and will
see in a minute.
Okay welcome back.
So hopefully you know what mump downloaded and if we just had 0 2 0 downloads and double-click on the
installer they should take you through the installation process.
I should be pretty simple on both Mac and Windows.
OK so should get the installation script.
If we just continue through.
Except the licencing agreement.
I'm going to install for all users on this computer.
And then click install.
I shouldn't take too long to install so we just give that moment to mention Stalin.
There is some mump among pro has been installed successfully.
Word is going to be used in the free month version.
That's going to need for this course.
We don't need to pay for the Pro version so once it's finished installing just click on Close.
Okay so now I got mump installed.
If you use a Mac if you go over to the applications it should be saved inside there.
If using a Windows machine it should be stored in your usual location such as the C drive.
So if you just go over to mump.
Double click on the mum with the elephant icon.
Then you should get a window which looks like this.
So if we go into the preferences and then click the port tab the Apache ports which is the web server
is using on port 8 8 8 8 and then click on the web server by default.
The path for the document root should be the.
Hate to docs.
If it's not just click on the folder and then wanty in the folder.
If you find your way to the drive where mump is installed and then if would go down to find mump and
then open it up and then if you look for the hate to your docs folder and then select up.
And any website which you're going to be using HP for.
We need to put the project folder into the Haiti docs but will do that and just a bit.
So if we start by clicking start servers.
Hopefully if everything is still okay you should get the start of page.
Which tells it Mum has been successfully installed.
Okay great.
So now mump is installed.
If we head over to Google search for wordpress.
And then once to search we need to go to work pressed dot org.
So do you want to take a look at the WordPress home page.
Feel free to do that but I'm going to click on Download word press.
And then download the latest version which is currently four point free.
Wordpress doesn't take long at all to install it only takes about 10 15 seconds.
If you've got good Internet connection.
Okay so once arts downloaded goodish get rid of that and then head over to downloads and then click
on the word precede file and unzip that.
So now this is our new project folder for our website.
So on one rename this tranquil dash w.p. and just sort of no confusion.
The original bookstop folder.
When are changes to trunk will be as.
And then we need to move this into a hate detox.
So I'm just going to open up a new window.
Find the hate detox.
So if you go back into the mump folder and into detox.
And then drag into Haiti docs the WordPress folder.
OK.
It's an old but WordPress installed in our document root of the hedgy docs.
If we go back to mump then click on the open start page.
This should take us back to the mump welcome screen.
And then click on the tools at the top and click on page P my admen.
They should take us to the admin area for creating databases so we need to create a new database for
wordpress So the way we do that if we selected databases tab at the top and then on the create database
and put our database name in there.
So um once called mind tranquil spa.
And then click on Create.
And then on the left we should get the trunkless spa database appeared in the list.
And then next we'll create a user for that day base.
So if we go to the tabs at the top of the page and click on Privileges and then we'll select the new
user.
And user which is at the bottom.
An arm can enter the user's information so the user name will keep as the text field.
And when I call my user spa admin.
And then for the host once you select local.
And then you can even type in the password of your choice or you can generate a password and make sure
if you generate a password that you copy it up.
And when you said just in a moment and then scroll forward on the page and hit go.
So there's a spa admin user created and then now we need to go back over to Wordpress and tell WordPress
the database information and use information that we've just created sort of close the browser for now.
And then open up your text editor.
And then if you go back over to the Haiti docs and well we've saved trunkful WP folder.
If you just drag that into the text editor.
So to configure the WordPress database if we go into the WordPress folder and select WP config sample.
Never can enter our database information so scroll down to the database name.
And you can see we just need to include our database name here so delete that.
And we called our database trenkle Spa so tranquil life and spa then underneath the database name we
can include the user name so delete the username here.
And we called our user spa admin so inspire admin or whatever name you created the password which you'd
have copied to the clipboard and paste it in.
We used a local host so we can just leave the horse as it is.
And then next.
We need to generate the keys and soltes for the off indication.
So where the website link is if we just copy this.
And then head over to your Web browser.
And paste it in.
And this should generate the keys which are unique.
So select all on the page and copy.
And then replace these the ones with just copied.
Paste those in.
And the last thing we need to do inside this file is to scroll down to the bottom of the page and we
can change the database table prefix from the standard w.p..
So I'm going to change mine too tranquil dbe.
And this can be anything you like it doesn't really matter.
So save that.
And then the last thing we need to do off this file is remove the sample word.
So we need to rename it WP dash config doppie HP.
And make sure that saved.
So if you remember when we first downloaded mump and we went inside the preferences and the pots if
you remember that the port was to be eight oblate so we can use this to go into our web browser.
So if you go into the web browser and then type in local host.
And then akol on and then 8 8 8 8 and then enter.
This should give you an index of all the Web sites which are stored inside the hastey Docs.
So for now we've only got the tranquil spa.
So if we click on that.
And hopefully for offings when wealthy you you get the word press installation script.
And it's really simple to follow along.
First of all we need to select our language.
So mine is English U.K. and slick continue.
Now we need a little bit of information about the site.
So the site title is going to be tranquil spa.
Got my username saved as tranquil underscore admin and then create a password.
And then mind this password is going to be different from your database.
This is going to be to log into the WordPress admin.
So create a strong password of your choice.
An end type in an e-mail.
Privacy we can uncheck this for now.
We can change that later on in the settings once we have finished a website and then click install Wordpress.
So goats that were press installed that are quick and easy to get were press started on your machine.
So if you go to log in our bill to go to the control panel.
So put username and password in and have taken to the WordPress dashboard.
If you want to check out how the WordPress website is look and so far using the default theme you can
just click on the tranquil spa or Mike on other top.
This is our website and this is just the standard Feme which comes with wordpress.
So those girls that were pressed now installed.
Thanks for watching and we'll see in the next video wellstar Important.
Bookstop files into Wordpress.